# grrs第一个实现
After the last chapter on command line arguments, we have our input data, and we can start to write our actual tool. Our main function only contains this line right now:
在上一章讨论命令行参数之后，我们有了输入数据，就可以开始编写实际的工具了。
我们的main函数现在只包含这一行:

``` rust
    let args = Cli::parse();
```

让我们从打开我们得到的文件开始。

``` rust
let content = std::fs::read_to_string(&args.path).expect("could not read file");
```
Note: See that .expect method here? This is a shortcut function to quit that will make the program exit immediately when the value (in this case the input file) could not be read. It’s not very pretty, and in the next chapter on Nicer error reporting we will look at how to improve this.

Now, let’s iterate over the lines and print each one that contains our pattern:


    for line in content.lines() {
        if line.contains(&args.pattern) {
            println!("{}", line);
        }
    }
Wrapping up
Your code should now look like:


#![allow(unused)]

use clap::Parser;

/// Search for a pattern in a file and display the lines that contain it.
#[derive(Parser)]
struct Cli {
    /// The pattern to look for
    pattern: String,
    /// The path to the file to read
    path: std::path::PathBuf,
}

fn main() {
    let args = Cli::parse();
    let content = std::fs::read_to_string(&args.path).expect("could not read file");

    for line in content.lines() {
        if line.contains(&args.pattern) {
            println!("{}", line);
        }
    }
}
Give it a try: cargo run -- main src/main.rs should work now!

Exercise for the reader: This is not the best implementation: It will read the whole file into memory – however large the file may be. Find a way to optimize it! (One idea might be to use a BufReader instead of read_to_string().)